Update Install chapter (#74)
esp-rs/book: src/installation/index.md

# Setting Up a Development Environment

> At the moment, Espressif SoCs are based on two different architectures -- RISC-V and Xtensa. Each architecture supports the `std` and `no_std` application development.

Reviewer: I think, in the rest of the book we use `RISC-V` and `Xtensa`. Maybe we should define this in the guidelines.

> To set up the development environment, do the following

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To set up the development environment, do the following:
```

1. [Install Rust][install-rust]
2. Install requirements for the targets
    - [RISC-V targets][risc-v-targets]

>     - [Xtensa targets][xtensa-targets]

Reviewer: Maybe we should add an optional third step for installing std requirements

Author: Added a sentence after this list:

As mentioned in the installation procedures below, for `std` development also don't forget to install `std` Development Requirements.

Alternatively, you can host the development environment with support for Xtensa in a [container][use-containers].

[install-rust]: #install-rust
[risc-v-targets]: #risc-v-targets
[xtensa-targets]: #xtensa-targets
[use-containers]: #using-containers

## Install Rust

Make sure you have Rust installed. If not, see the instructions on the [rustup][rustup.rs-website] website.

See also [alternative installation methods][rust-alt-installation].

> **Note**: If you run Windows on your host machine, make sure you have installed one of the ABIs listed below. For more details, see the rustup book > [Chapter _Windows_][rustup-book-windows]
>
> - **MSVC**: Recommended ABI, included in the list of `rustup` default requirements. Use it for interoperability with the software produced by Visual Studio.
> - **GNU**: ABI used by the GCC toolchain. Install it yourself for interoperability with the software built with the MinGW/MSYS2 toolchain.

[rustup.rs-website]: https://rustup.rs/
[rust-alt-installation]: https://rust-lang.github.io/rustup/installation/other.html
[rustup-book-windows]: https://rust-lang.github.io/rustup/installation/windows.html

## RISC-V targets

> To build Rust applications for the Espressif chips based on `RISC-V` architecture, do the following

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To build Rust applications for the Espressif chips based on `RISC-V` architecture, do the following:
```

Author: Done for all comments about the semicolon.

[rust-lang-book--platform-support-tier3]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/rustc/platform-support.html#tier-3

3. To build `std` projects, you also need to install
    - [`LLVM`][llvm-website] compiler infrastructure
    - Other [`std` developemnt requirements][rust-esp-book-std-requirements]
    - In your project's file `.cargo/config.toml`, add the unstable Cargo [feature][cargo-book-unstable-features] `-Z build-std`. Our [template projects][rust-esp-book-write-app-generate-project] that are discussed later in this book already have it added.

[llvm-website]: https://llvm.org/
[rust-esp-book-std-requirements]: #std-development-requirements
[cargo-book-unstable-features]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/unstable.html
[rust-esp-book-write-app-generate-project]: ../writing-your-own-application/generate-project-from-template.md

Now you should be able to build and run projects on the Espressif's RISC-V chips.

## Xtensa targets

[espup][espup-github] is a tool that simplifies installing and maintaining the components required to develop Rust applications for the `Xtensa` architecture.

[espup-github]: https://github.com/esp-rs/espup

> To install `espup`, run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install `espup`, run:
```

```sh
cargo install espup
```

You can also directly download pre-compiled [release binaries] or use [cargo-binstall].

[release binaries]: https://github.com/esp-rs/espup/releases
[cargo-binstall]: https://github.com/cargo-bins/cargo-binstall

> Once `espup` is installed, do the following

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once `espup` is installed, do the following:
```

> 1. Install all the necessary tools to develop Rust applications for all supported ESP targets by running

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Install all the necessary tools to develop Rust applications for all supported Espressif targets by running:
```

    ```sh
    espup install
    ```

    `espup` will create an export file that contains some environment variables required to build projects:

    - Unix systems - `$HOME/export-esp.sh`
    - Windows - `%USERPROFILE%\export-esp.ps1`

2. Make sure to source this file in every terminal before building any application:

    - Unix systems, run `. $HOME/export-esp.sh`

>     - Windows, run `%USERPROFILE%\export-esp.ps1`

Reviewer: In Windows, we create the export file, but variables are automatically injected in the user environment, and do not need to be sourced, see https://github.com/esp-rs/espup#install for more details

Author: Done!

# Setting Up a Development Environment

At the moment, Espressif SoCs are based on two different architectures -- `RISC-V` and `Xtensa`. Both architectures support `std` and `no_std` approaches.

To set up the development environment, do the following:

1. [Install Rust][install-rust]

> 2. Install requirements based on your target(s)

Author: @SergioGasquez 

Do you think we can update the list like this (as well as the respective section names below):

- `RISC-V` targets only
- `Xtensa` and `RISC-V` targets

## RISC-V targets only

## Xtensa and RISC-V targets

> 2. Install requirements for the targets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Install requirements based on your target(s)
```

>     - [RISC-V targets][risc-v-targets]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - [`RISC-V` targets][risc-v-targets]
```

>     - [Xtensa targets][xtensa-targets]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - [`Xtensa` and `RISC-V` targets][xtensa-targets]
```

Not sure of how to approach this, but I think we should tell somewhere that `espup` installs the environment for both RISC-V and Xtensa targets.

Author: How about having the sections like this:

1. Install Rust
2. Install requirements based on your target(s)
    - RISC-V targets only
    - RISC-V and Xtensa targets

## Install Rust

## RISC-V targets only

## RISC-V and Xtensa targets

>     - [Xtensa targets][xtensa-targets]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - [`Xtensa` targets][xtensa-targets]
```

>     - [`Xtensa` and `RISC-V` targets][xtensa-targets]

Author: @SergioGasquez 

Do you think we can update the list like this (as well as the respective section names below):

- `RISC-V` targets only
- `Xtensa` and `RISC-V` targets

## RISC-V targets only

## Xtensa and RISC-V targets

Author: Thanks! Made the updates.

As mentioned in the installation procedures below, for `std` development also don't forget to install [`std` Development Requirements][rust-esp-book-std-requirements].

> Please note that you can host the development environment with support for Xtensa in a [container][use-containers].

Reviewer: We also provide containers for RISC-V targets

Author: Got it. Suggest updating the container description on the [idf-rust](https://hub.docker.com/r/espressif/idf-rust/tags) page.

> Please note that you can host the development environment with support for Xtensa in a [container][use-containers].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please note that you can host the development environment with support for `Xtensa` in a [container][use-containers].
```

[install-rust]: #install-rust
[risc-v-targets]: #risc-v-targets
[xtensa-targets]: #xtensa-targets
[use-containers]: #using-containers

## Install Rust

> Make sure you have Rust installed. If not, see the instructions on the [rustup][rustup.rs-website] website.

Reviewer: Maybe add a link in "Rust" to https://www.rust-lang.org/?

Author: Done

[rust-lang-book--platform-support-tier2]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/rustc/platform-support.html#tier-2
[wiki-riscv-standard-extensions]: https://en.wikichip.org/wiki/risc-v/standard_extensions
[rust-lang-book--platform-support-tier3]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/rustc/platform-support.html#tier-3

3. To build `std` projects, you also need to install:
    - [`LLVM`][llvm-website] compiler infrastructure
    - Other [`std` developemnt requirements][rust-esp-book-std-requirements]
    - In your project's file `.cargo/config.toml`, add the unstable Cargo [feature][cargo-book-unstable-features] `-Z build-std`. Our [template projects][rust-esp-book-write-app-generate-project] that are discussed later in this book already have it added.

[llvm-website]: https://llvm.org/
[rust-esp-book-std-requirements]: #std-development-requirements
[cargo-book-unstable-features]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/unstable.html
[rust-esp-book-write-app-generate-project]: ../writing-your-own-application/generate-project-from-template.md

Now you should be able to build and run projects on the Espressif's `RISC-V` chips.

## Xtensa targets

> [espup][espup-github] is a tool that simplifies installing and maintaining the components required to develop Rust applications for the `Xtensa` architecture.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`espup`][espup-github] is a tool that simplifies installing and maintaining the components required to develop Rust applications for the `Xtensa` architecture.
```

> [espup][espup-github] is a tool that simplifies installing and maintaining the components required to develop Rust applications for the `Xtensa` architecture.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[espup][espup-github] is a tool that simplifies installing and maintaining the components required to develop Rust applications for all Espressif chips, both `Xtensa` and `RISC-V` based.
```

[espup-github]: https://github.com/esp-rs/espup

To install `espup`, run:
```sh
cargo install espup
```

You can also directly download pre-compiled [release binaries] or use [cargo-binstall].

[release binaries]: https://github.com/esp-rs/espup/releases
[cargo-binstall]: https://github.com/cargo-bins/cargo-binstall

Once `espup` is installed, do the following:

1. Install all the necessary tools to develop Rust applications for all supported Espressif targets by running:
    ```sh
    espup install
    ```

    `espup` will create an export file that contains some environment variables required to build projects:

    - Unix systems - `$HOME/export-esp.sh`
    - Windows - `%USERPROFILE%\export-esp.ps1`

> 2. Make sure to source this file in every terminal before building any application:
> 
>     - Unix systems, run `. $HOME/export-esp.sh`
>     - Windows does not require sourcing any file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. On Unix systems, make sure to source this file in every terminal before building any application: `. $HOME/export-esp.sh`

  > On Windows systems, the file is created to show the user the modified enviroment variables, but user does not require sourcing any file.
```

> After installing `espup`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After running `espup install`:
```

>   > On Windows systems, the file is created to show the user the modified enviroment variables, but user does not require sourcing any file.

Author: @SergioGasquez 

I think the fact that no actions are required is more important to the user than the reason behind it. Do you think we can rewrite the paragraph like this:

On Windows systems, no need to source the file. It is only created to show the modified environment variables.

>   > On Windows systems, the file is created to show the user the modified enviroment variables, but user does not require sourcing any file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  > On Windows systems, users does not need to source the file. The file is only created to show the modified environment variables.
```

- Using [esp-rs/rust-build] installation scripts. This was the recommended way in the past, but now the installation scripts are feature frozen, and all new features will only be included in `espup`. See the repository README for instructions.
- Building the Rust compiler with `Xtensa` support from source. This process is computationally expensive and can take one or more hours to complete depending on your system. It is not recommended unless there is a major reason to go for this approach. Here is the repository to build it from source: [esp-rs/rust repository].

[esp-rs/rust-build]: https://github.com/esp-rs/rust-build#download-installer-in-bash
[esp-rs/rust repository]: https://github.com/esp-rs/rust

## `std` Development Requirements

Regardless of the target architecture, make sure you have the following required tools installed to build [`std`][rust-esp-book-overview-std] applications:

- [`python`][python-website-download]: Required by ESP-IDF
- [`git`][git-website-download]: Required by ESP-IDF
- [`ldproxy`][embuild-github-ldproxy] crate: Simple tool to pass the `ldproxy` linker arguments to the actual linker executable. Install it  by running:

> 

Reviewer: We are still missing the codeblock with the installation command:
```
cargo install ldproxy
```

Author: Yeah, thank!

# Setting Up a Development Environment

At the moment, Espressif SoCs are based on two different architectures: `RISC-V` and `Xtensa`. Both architectures support `std` and `no_std` approaches.

To set up the development environment, do the following:

1. [Install Rust][install-rust]
2. Install requirements based on your target(s)
    - [`RISC-V` targets only][risc-v-targets]
    - [`RISC-V` and `Xtensa` targets][rics-v-xtensa-targets]

As mentioned in the installation procedures below, for `std` development also don't forget to install [`std` Development Requirements][rust-esp-book-std-requirements].

Please note that you can host the development environment in a [container][use-containers].

[install-rust]: #install-rust
[risc-v-targets]: #risc-v-targets
[rics-v-xtensa-targets]: #xtensa-targets
[use-containers]: #using-containers

## Install Rust

Make sure you have [Rust][rust-lang-org] installed. If not, see the instructions on the [rustup][rustup.rs-website] website.

See also [alternative installation methods][rust-alt-installation].

> > **Note**: If you run Windows on your host machine, make sure you have installed one of the ABIs listed below. For more details, see The rustup book > [Chapter _Windows_][rustup-book-windows]

Author: Thank you for bringing up this issue!

We need to agree on how to refer to other chapters/sections or books. I see that all books on Rust use different approaches.

We can briefly discuss it during the sync-up meeting.

> > **Note**: If you run Windows on your host machine, make sure you have installed one of the ABIs listed below. For more details, see The rustup book > [Chapter _Windows_][rustup-book-windows]

Author: @SergioGasquez 

The links in the book **Rust on ESP** are originally formatted somewhat like this:

- For more details, see [the Windows chapter in The rustup book](https://rust-lang.github.io/rustup/installation/windows.html).

**Other books on Rust** use slightly different link formatting, but the average pattern is like this:

- For more details, see the [Windows](https://rust-lang.github.io/rustup/installation/windows.html) chapter in The rustup book.

Let's stick with this average Rust book pattern for now? I will revisit this question when we will be working on the documentation style guide soon.

> > **Note**: If you run Windows on your host machine, make sure you have installed one of the ABIs listed below. For more details, see The rustup book > [Chapter _Windows_][rustup-book-windows]

Reviewer: > Let's stick with this average Rust book pattern for now? I will revisit this question when we will be working on the documentation style guide soon. 

Sounds good to me!

>
> - **MSVC**: Recommended ABI, included in the list of `rustup` default requirements. Use it for interoperability with the software produced by Visual Studio.
> - **GNU**: ABI used by the GCC toolchain. Install it yourself for interoperability with the software built with the MinGW/MSYS2 toolchain.

[rustup.rs-website]: https://rustup.rs/
[rust-alt-installation]: https://rust-lang.github.io/rustup/installation/other.html
[rustup-book-windows]: https://rust-lang.github.io/rustup/installation/windows.html
[rust-lang-org]: https://www.rust-lang.org/

## RISC-V targets only

To build Rust applications for the Espressif chips based on `RISC-V` architecture, do the following:

1. Install the [`nightly`][rustup-book-channel-nightly] toolchain with the `rust-src` [component][rustup-book-components]:

    ```bash
    rustup toolchain install nightly --component rust-src
    ```

[rustup-book-channel-nightly]: https://rust-lang.github.io/rustup/concepts/channels.html#working-with-nightly-rust
[rustup-book-components]: https://rust-lang.github.io/rustup/concepts/components.html

2. Set the target:
    - For `no_std` (bare-metal) applications, run:

      ```bash

>       rustup target add riscv32imc-unknown-none-elf

Reviewer: We probably could do something like:
```suggestion
      rustup target add riscv32imc-unknown-none-elf # For ESP32-C2 and ESP32-C3
      rustup target add riscv32imac-unknown-none-elf # For ESP32-C6 and ESP32-H2
```

We have a small note bellow on the different riscv32 flavors but I agree we should be explicit

To install `espup`, run:
```sh
cargo install espup
```

You can also directly download pre-compiled [release binaries] or use [cargo-binstall].

[release binaries]: https://github.com/esp-rs/espup/releases
[cargo-binstall]: https://github.com/cargo-bins/cargo-binstall

Once `espup` is installed, do the following:

1. Install all the necessary tools to develop Rust applications for all supported Espressif targets by running:
    ```sh
    espup install
    ```

    `espup` will create an export file that contains some environment variables required to build projects:

    - Unix systems - `$HOME/export-esp.sh`
    - Windows - `%USERPROFILE%\export-esp.ps1`

2. On Unix systems, make sure to source this file in every terminal before building any application: `. $HOME/export-esp.sh`
    > On Windows systems, no need to source the file. It is only created to show the modified environment variables.

After running `espup install`:

- `no_std` (bare-metal) applications should work out of the box
- `std` applications require additional software covered in [`std` Development Requirements][rust-esp-book-std-requirements]

### What espup Installs

> To enable support for Xtensa targets, `espup` installs the following tools:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable support for Espressif targets, `espup` installs the following tools:
```

- Espressif Rust fork with support for `Xtensa` targets

> - `nightly` toolchain with support for `RISC-V` targets

Reviewer 2: As per the sentence before it, this list is supposed to be for Xtensa targets, what relevance does RISC-V have here?

Author: Done

- `LLVM` [fork][llvm-github-fork] with support for `Xtensa` targets

> - [GCC toolchain][gcc-toolchain-github-fork] as it is used as linker

Reviewer: I would suggest using `- [GCC toolchain][gcc-toolchain-github-fork] that links the final binary`. For `no_std` projects, we also use GCC as a linker (that is the reason `espup` downloads it, otherwise we will rely on `esp-idf-sys` )  and in, this case, it does not compiles the ESP-IDF.

> - [GCC toolchain][gcc-toolchain-github-fork] as it is used as linker

Reviewer 3: Ah I see, I didn't know that no_std non-esp-idf-sys projects also used gcc for linking.

> - [GCC toolchain][gcc-toolchain-github-fork] as it is used as linker

Reviewer: It is something temporary, but yes. In the future, we plant to use `lld` in `no_std`, see https://github.com/esp-rs/esp-hal/pull/357.

Please, @f-hollow do you mind changing the line as I suggested?
```sugestion
- [GCC toolchain][gcc-toolchain-github-fork] that links the final binary
```

> - [GCC toolchain][gcc-toolchain-github-fork] as it is used as linker

Author: Updated the line to

> - [GCC toolchain][gcc-toolchain-github-fork] that links the final binary

To install `espup`, run:
```sh
cargo install espup
```

You can also directly download pre-compiled [release binaries] or use [cargo-binstall].

[release binaries]: https://github.com/esp-rs/espup/releases
[cargo-binstall]: https://github.com/cargo-bins/cargo-binstall

Once `espup` is installed, do the following:

1. Install all the necessary tools to develop Rust applications for all supported Espressif targets by running:
    ```sh
    espup install
    ```

    `espup` will create an export file that contains some environment variables required to build projects:

    - Unix systems - `$HOME/export-esp.sh`
    - Windows - `%USERPROFILE%\export-esp.ps1`

2. On Unix systems, make sure to source this file in every terminal before building any application: `. $HOME/export-esp.sh`

  > On Windows systems, no need to source the file. It is only created to show the modified environment variables.

After running `espup install`:

- `no_std` (bare-metal) applications should work out of the box
- `std` applications require additional software covered in [`std` Development Requirements][rust-esp-book-std-requirements]

### Other installation methods

> - Using [esp-rs/rust-build] installation scripts. This was the recommended way in the past, but now the installation scripts are feature frozen and all new features will only be included in `espup`. See the repository README for instructions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Using [esp-rs/rust-build] installation scripts. This was the recommended way in the past, but now the installation scripts are feature frozen, and all new features will only be included in `espup`. See the repository README for instructions.
```

- [`ldproxy`][embuild-github-ldproxy] crate: Simple tool to pass the `ldproxy` linker arguments to the actual linker executable. Install it  by running
  - `cargo install ldproxy`

The std runtime uses [ESP-IDF][esp-idf-github] (Espressif IoT Development Framework) as hosted environment but, users do not need to install it. ESP-IDF is automatically downloaded and installed by [esp-idf-sys][esp-idf-sys-github], a crate that all std projects need to use, when building a std application.

[rust-esp-book-overview-std]: ../overview/using-the-standard-library.md
[python-website-download]: https://www.python.org/downloads/
[git-website-download]: https://git-scm.com/downloads
[embuild-github-ldproxy]: https://github.com/esp-rs/embuild/tree/master/ldproxy
[esp-idf-sys-github]: https://github.com/esp-rs/esp-idf-sys
[esp-idf-github]: https://github.com/espressif/esp-idf

## Using Containers

Instead of installing directly on your local system, you can host the development environment inside a container. Espressif provides the [idf-rust] image that supports both `RISC-V` and `Xtensa` target architectures and enables both `std` and `no_std` development.

> You can find numerous tags for `linux/arm64` and `linux/amd64` platforms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find numerous tags for `linux/arm64`, and `linux/amd64` platforms.
```

Author: I am afraid the comma is not needed here in English. See the details [here](https://www.scribbr.com/commas/comma-before-or-after-and/).

# Setting Up a Development Environment

> At the moment, Espressif SoCs are based on two different architectures -- `RISC-V` and `Xtensa`. Both architectures support `std` and `no_std` approaches.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the moment, Espressif SoCs are based on two different architectures: `RISC-V` and `Xtensa`. Both architectures support `std` and `no_std` approaches.
```

[rust-lang-book--platform-support-tier2]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/rustc/platform-support.html#tier-2
[wiki-riscv-standard-extensions]: https://en.wikichip.org/wiki/risc-v/standard_extensions
[rust-lang-book--platform-support-tier3]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/rustc/platform-support.html#tier-3

3. To build `std` projects, you also need to install:
    - [`LLVM`][llvm-website] compiler infrastructure
    - Other [`std` developemnt requirements][rust-esp-book-std-requirements]
    - In your project's file `.cargo/config.toml`, add the unstable Cargo [feature][cargo-book-unstable-features] `-Z build-std`. Our [template projects][rust-esp-book-write-app-generate-project] that are discussed later in this book already have it added.

[llvm-website]: https://llvm.org/
[rust-esp-book-std-requirements]: #std-development-requirements
[cargo-book-unstable-features]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/unstable.html
[rust-esp-book-write-app-generate-project]: ../writing-your-own-application/generate-project-from-template.md

Now you should be able to build and run projects on the Espressif's `RISC-V` chips.

## RISC-V and Xtensa targets

> [`espup`][espup-github] is a tool that simplifies installing and maintaining the components required to develop Rust applications for the `Xtensa` architecture.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`espup`][espup-github] is a tool that simplifies installing and maintaining the components required to develop Rust applications for the `Xtensa` and `RISC-V `architectures.
```

[espup-github]: https://github.com/esp-rs/espup

To install `espup`, run:
```sh
cargo install espup
```

You can also directly download pre-compiled [release binaries] or use [cargo-binstall].

[release binaries]: https://github.com/esp-rs/espup/releases
[cargo-binstall]: https://github.com/cargo-bins/cargo-binstall

Once `espup` is installed, do the following:

1. Install all the necessary tools to develop Rust applications for all supported Espressif targets by running:
    ```sh
    espup install
    ```

    `espup` will create an export file that contains some environment variables required to build projects:

    - Unix systems - `$HOME/export-esp.sh`
    - Windows - `%USERPROFILE%\export-esp.ps1`

2. On Unix systems, make sure to source this file in every terminal before building any application: `. $HOME/export-esp.sh`

> 
>   > On Windows systems, no need to source the file. It is only created to show the modified environment variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  > On Windows systems, no need to source the file. It is only created to show the modified environment variables.
```

The note should be indented after the `2.`

After running `espup install`:

- `no_std` (bare-metal) applications should work out of the box
- `std` applications require additional software covered in [`std` Development Requirements][rust-esp-book-std-requirements]

> ### Other installation methods

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Other installation methods for Xtensa targets
```

- Using [esp-rs/rust-build] installation scripts. This was the recommended way in the past, but now the installation scripts are feature frozen and all new features will only be included in `espup`. See the repository README for instructions.
- Building the Rust compiler with `Xtensa` support from source. This process is computationally expensive and can take one or more hours to complete depending on your system. It is not recommended unless there is a major reason to go for this approach. Here is the repository to build it from source: [esp-rs/rust repository].

[esp-rs/rust-build]: https://github.com/esp-rs/rust-build#download-installer-in-bash
[esp-rs/rust repository]: https://github.com/esp-rs/rust

> ### What espup Installs

Reviewer: I think that  we should move "What espup Installs" chapter before "Other installation methods"

Author: Done!

To enable support for Xtensa targets, `espup` installs the following tools:

- Espressif Rust fork with support for `Xtensa` targets

> - `nightly` toolchain with the necessary `RISC-V` targets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `nightly` toolchain with support for `RISC-V` targets
```

> - `LLVM` [fork][llvm-github-fork] that supports `Xtensa` targets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `LLVM` [fork][llvm-github-fork] with support for `Xtensa` targets
```

- [GCC toolchain][gcc-toolchain-github-fork] as it is used as linker

The forked compiler can coexist with the standard Rust compiler, allowing both to be installed on your system. The forked compiler is invoked when using any of the available [overriding methods][rustup-overrides].

> **Note**: We are making efforts to upstream our forks

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 1. Changes in `LLVM` fork. Already in progress, see the status in this [tracking issue][llvm-github-fork-upstream issue].
> 2. Rust compiler forks. If `LLVM` changes are accepted, we will proceed with the Rust compiler changes.

[llvm-github-fork]: https://github.com/espressif/llvm-project
[gcc-toolchain-github-fork]: https://github.com/espressif/crosstool-NG/
[rustup-overrides]: https://rust-lang.github.io/rustup/overrides.html
[llvm-github-fork-upstream issue]: https://github.com/espressif/llvm-project/issues/4

## `std` Development Requirements

Regardless of the target architecture, make sure you have the following required tools installed to build [`std`][rust-esp-book-overview-std] applications:

- [`python`][python-website-download]: Required by ESP-IDF
- [`git`][git-website-download]: Required by ESP-IDF

> - [`ldproxy`][embuild-github-ldproxy] crate: Simple tool to pass the `ldproxy` linker arguments to the actual linker executable. Install it  by running
>   - `cargo install ldproxy`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`ldproxy`][embuild-github-ldproxy] crate: Simple tool to pass the `ldproxy` linker arguments to the actual linker executable. Install it  by running:
  ```
  cargo install ldproxy
  ```
```

The std runtime uses [ESP-IDF][esp-idf-github] (Espressif IoT Development Framework) as hosted environment but, users do not need to install it. ESP-IDF is automatically downloaded and installed by [esp-idf-sys][esp-idf-sys-github], a crate that all std projects need to use, when building a std application.

[rust-esp-book-overview-std]: ../overview/using-the-standard-library.md
[python-website-download]: https://www.python.org/downloads/
[git-website-download]: https://git-scm.com/downloads
[embuild-github-ldproxy]: https://github.com/esp-rs/embuild/tree/master/ldproxy
[esp-idf-sys-github]: https://github.com/esp-rs/esp-idf-sys
[esp-idf-github]: https://github.com/espressif/esp-idf

## Using Containers

Instead of installing directly on your local system, you can host the development environment inside a container. Espressif provides the [idf-rust] image that supports both `RISC-V` and `Xtensa` target architectures and enables both `std` and `no_std` development.

You can find numerous tags for `linux/arm64` and `linux/amd64` platforms.

For each Rust release, we generate the tag with the following naming convention:

> - `std` applications
>   - `<chip>_<esp-idf-version>_<rust-toolchain-version>`
>   - For example, `esp32s3_v4.4_1.64.0.0` contains the ecosystem for developing `std` applications based on [ESP-IDF release/v4.4] for `ESP32-S3` with the `1.64.0.0` Rust toolchain.
> - `no_std` applications
>   - `<chip>_<rust-toolchain-version>`
>   - For example, `esp32_1.64.0.0` contains the ecosystem for developing `no_std` applications for `ESP32` with the `1.64.0.0` Rust toolchain

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `<chip>_<rust-toolchain-version>`
  - For example, `esp32_1.64.0.0` contains the ecosystem for developing `std`, and `no_std` applications for `ESP32` with the `1.64.0.0` Xtensa Rust toolchain.
```

Author: The same thing with `, and` between noun phrases: the comma is not required in such cases in English. For details, see [this](https://www.scribbr.com/commas/comma-before-or-after-and/).

[esp-rs/rust-build]: https://github.com/esp-rs/rust-build
[Installing from Source section of the esp-rs/rust repository]: https://github.com/esp-rs/rust#installing-from-source

### What espup Installs

To enable support for Xtensa targets, `espup` installs the following tools

> - Rust compiler

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

We do not install Rust compiler

> - Espressif fork for `Xtensa` targets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Espressif Rust fork for `Xtensa` targets
```

- `nightly` toolchain with the necessary `RISC-V` targets
- `LLVM` [fork][llvm-github-fork] that supports `Xtensa` targets

> - [GCC toolchain][gcc-toolchain-github-fork] as a custom linker that allows `LLVM` to support `Xtensa` targets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [GCC toolchain][gcc-toolchain-github-fork] as it is used as linker.
```

The forked compiler can coexist with the standard Rust compiler, allowing both to be installed on your system. The forked compiler is invoked when using the `esp` [channel][rustup-github-concepts-channel] instead of the defaults, `stable` or `nightly`.

> **Note**: We are making efforts to upstream our forks

> 1. Changes in `LLVM` fork. Already in progress, see the status in this [tracking issue][llvm-github-fork-upstream issue].
> 2. Rust compiler forks. If `LLVM` changes are accepted, we will proceed with the Rust compiler changes.

[llvm-github-fork]: https://github.com/espressif/llvm-project
[gcc-toolchain-github-fork]: https://github.com/espressif/crosstool-NG/
[rustup-github-concepts-channel]: https://rust-lang.github.io/rustup/concepts/channels.html
[llvm-github-fork-upstream issue]: https://github.com/espressif/llvm-project/issues/4

## `std` Development Requirements

> This section is part of the

Reviewer: This sentence is not finished

Author: Ah, edit leftovers.

> [esp-rs/rust-build]: https://github.com/esp-rs/rust-build

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[esp-rs/rust-build]: https://github.com/esp-rs/rust-build#download-installer-in-bash
```

> [Installing from Source section of the esp-rs/rust repository]: https://github.com/esp-rs/rust#installing-from-source

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: > - Building the Rust compiler with `Xtensa` support from source. This process is computationally expensive and can take one or more hours to complete depending on your system. It is not recommended unless there is a major reason to go for this approach. Here is the repository to build it from source: [esp-rs/rust repository].

Author: Updated!

> 

Author: @SergioGasquez 

Other installation methods refer to the instructions in `espup` and `esp-rs/rust` that I didn't find. Can you please check? Should we update the links here?

### What espup Installs

To enable support for Xtensa targets, `espup` installs the following tools:

> - Espressif Rust fork for `Xtensa` targets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Espressif Rust fork with support for `Xtensa` targets
```

- `nightly` toolchain with the necessary `RISC-V` targets
- `LLVM` [fork][llvm-github-fork] that supports `Xtensa` targets
- [GCC toolchain][gcc-toolchain-github-fork] as it is used as linker

> The forked compiler can coexist with the standard Rust compiler, allowing both to be installed on your system. The forked compiler is invoked when using the `esp` [channel][rustup-github-concepts-channel] instead of the defaults, `stable` or `nightly`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The forked compiler can coexist with the standard Rust compiler, allowing both to be installed on your system. The forked compiler is invoked when using any of the available [overriding methods][rustup-overrides].
```

> **Note**: We are making efforts to upstream our forks

> 1. Changes in `LLVM` fork. Already in progress, see the status in this [tracking issue][llvm-github-fork-upstream issue].
> 2. Rust compiler forks. If `LLVM` changes are accepted, we will proceed with the Rust compiler changes.

[llvm-github-fork]: https://github.com/espressif/llvm-project
[gcc-toolchain-github-fork]: https://github.com/espressif/crosstool-NG/

> [rustup-github-concepts-channel]: https://rust-lang.github.io/rustup/concepts/channels.html

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[rustup-overrides]: https://rust-lang.github.io/rustup/overrides.html
```

[llvm-github-fork-upstream issue]: https://github.com/espressif/llvm-project/issues/4

## `std` Development Requirements

> Regardless of the target architecture make sure you have the following required tools installed to build [`std`][rust-esp-book-overview-std] applications

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Regardless of the target architecture, make sure you have the following required tools installed to build [`std`][rust-esp-book-overview-std] applications:
```

- [`python`][python-website-download]: Required by ESP-IDF
- [`git`][git-website-download]: Required by ESP-IDF
- [`ldproxy`][embuild-github-ldproxy] crate: Simple tool to pass the `ldproxy` linker arguments to the actual linker executable. Install it  by running
  - `cargo install ldproxy`

> Required by all `std` projects and included in the project's file `.cargo/config.toml`, the crate [`esp-idf-sys`] also automatically downloads and installs ESP-IDF (Espressif IoT Development Framework).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The std runtime uses [ESP-IDF][esp-idf-github] (Espressif IoT Development Framework) as hosted environment but, users do not need to install it. ESP-IDF is automatically downloaded and installed by [esp-idf-sys][esp-idf-sys-github], a crate that all std projects need to use, when building a std application.
```

[rust-esp-book-overview-std]: ../overview/using-the-standard-library.md
[python-website-download]: https://www.python.org/downloads/
[git-website-download]: https://git-scm.com/downloads
[embuild-github-ldproxy]: https://github.com/esp-rs/embuild/tree/master/ldproxy
[esp-idf-sys-github]: https://github.com/esp-rs/esp-idf-sys
[esp-idf-github]: https://github.com/espressif/esp-idf

## Using Containers

Instead of installing directly on your local system, you can host the development environment inside a container. Espressif provides the [idf-rust] image that supports both `RISC-V` and `Xtensa` target architectures and enables both `std` and `no_std` development.

> You can find numerous tags for `linux/arm64` and `linux/amd64`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find numerous tags for `linux/arm64` and `linux/amd64` platforms.
```

> For each Rust release, we generate the tag with the following naming conventions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each Rust release, we generate the tag with the following naming convention:
```
